# Geometry-Dash-Remake

Initial Creation: 12/4/24:
This code works in java, and if you just copy and paste the code or files into VS Code or whatever IDE you are using. It should work if you just do the commands "javac *.java" and "java Runner". 

Use the up arrow key to jump. You might need to manually change the key you press to jump. What you would do for that is go into the Screen.java file, and go to the keyPressed method. There is a commented out line that is System.out.println(e.getKeyCode()). If you uncomment that, just run it with the javac *.java and java Runner commands, click on the pop up window, and press the desired key. Then, if you see the terminal, you should see a number. Then, go to the keyPressed function and where the if statement that says "if (e.getKeyCode() == 38){" just change the 38 to whatever number appeared in your terminal. You can do this to also make it space bar or w if you would like.

To change the level, so far there is just a full block, a full spike, and yellow jump pad. In the Screen class, in the Constructor (the public Screen() method), there is code that goes like blockList.add(new Block...). There will be things like that for spikeList and padList. As the name suggests, they are lists for blocks, spikes, etc. The first number that is inputted is the x, and the second is the y. Keep in mind, the x and y you input doesn't account for the constant scrolling to the left. Also, one block is 30x30 units (I think they are pixels, but they seem a bit big for that). The Player is the size of one block and so are the spikes. The spike's hitboxes are similar to the real game, it's like a little rectangle inside. If you want to see the hitbox, just comment out line 84 in Screen.java. Also, when adding blocks and spikes, the x and y are to top left of the object. For Blocks and Spikes, it's area is treated as a 30x30 box, but for pads it is a 30x5 box. You can kind of see it in the layout allready in there, but to make a box that is on the "bottom", set the y to 30, same thing for spikes. To make a pad at the "bottom", set the y to 5. Also, the x and y is treated like quadrant one of the Cartesian Coordinate System, not quadrant 4 like normal java GUI is (which always has annoyed me). So as you increase y it goes up, and as you increase x it goes to the right. This may seem like common sense to those of you that haven't done a lot of java GUI programming, but it was a very nice shift for me.

Have fun, and please don't plagiarize this code. It's only provided for inspiration and just to share ideas. If you want to use please provide attribution to me, as I spent a lot of time on this. 

Expect additions and expansions soon!
